Alright, we are going to be talking
about Spring Stereotypes or
Spring Framework Stereotypes. A
Stereotype for our discussion today is a
fixed general image or set of
characteristics but which represent a
particular type of person or thing and
we're going to be focusing on the thing
part of that definition. The word
Stereotype definitely has a lot of
negative connotations because
Stereotyping people is particularly a
bad habit to do and that's frowned upon
within the world but in this context, we
are talking about Stereotyping software
components and these stereotypes, I think
they pick that word because we're trying
to specify what gives you a hint of what
that particular thing is doing. Like a
controller is going to be a controller
inside of Spring MVC. A services is intended
to be a generic service layer. So these
are used to express the intent. So when
we encounter the Spring Stereotypes, they
are used to be defined Spring Beans with
in the Spring Context and this is being
done through a Component Scan. So this is
part of the Spring Java Configuration
where Spring is going to go and scan a
particular package and it's looking for
these Stereotyped annotations. Now the available stereotypes within
the Spring framework are @Component,
@Controller, @RestController, @Repository
and @Service and I want to show you the
hierarchy. Component is the highest level,
everything else inherits from the
Component so when Spring encounters
just the Component annotation, that's
going to wire it up as a Spring Bean,
it's going to hold true for all the
other annotations. Now Controller is used
to indicate a Spring MVC Controller and
to be honest you probably could swap
Controller and Component out and still
have that bean function as Controller
because that's going to be a Spring
Component but when you use Controller
you're going to be using Request Mapping to map
a particular method to a URL and that's
really the meat and potatoes of the
Spring MVC in that action. I don't know
if you can or not, but I expected to what
I personally tried swapping Controller
and Component. Repository is annotation
that
case that you're accessing the data
layer where Service is intended to be a
Service that's going to be backing up
usually quite often that Controller.
Now RestController, some people don't
consider RestController actual
Stereotype because it is a convenience
annotation and it represents Controller
and ResponseBody. So if you look at the
code of that you can see that it just
extends Controller and adds in the
ResponseBody. Now ResponseBody as an
annotation we have not seen yet. We will
be working with that later in the course
and that is used within Spring MVC to
render an object back to the response
and commonly you're going to be working
with this when you're doing Restful API's.
You're going to be returning back a JSON
object or an XML object and Response
Body is what says, take this object and
render it back to the client as json or
xml. Taking a closer look at the
different Spring stereotypes, we have
Component and Controller. They're very
similar but they're just indicating
different intentions. Like I said before
the RestController that is a
convenience annotation combining
Controller and ResponseBody. Now
Repository and Services, these are both
inspired by Domain-Driven Design by
Evans in 2003 and this is a very iconic
computer book and obviously Rod
Johnson when he was developing Spring
Framework he's up on the latest trends
and what not and this was right around
2003 in the early days of Spring. So we
can see that repository is a mechanism
for encapsulating storage retrieval and
search behavior. So it's going to be
defining classes. It's going to be interacting
with a persistence in database likely. And then a Service, there's an operation
that stands alone in the model, with no
encapsulated state. So a real real common
pattern which we've already seen is that
you're going to take a Controller and
give it a Service and the Service is
going to be responsible as far as
managing the interaction with the
Controller and the database layer. So
pretty common pattern within Spring
Framework to have a controller inject a
service into it and that service will
have a
repository injected into it. Now all
these annotations behaviorally to
the Spring Framework are roughly the
same repositories the one that does
stick out a little bit because what we
get here, we do get some special error
handling when you mark a component on
the Spring using the Repository
annotation and what Spring is going to
do under the covers is take if you're
using hibernate or just straight JDBC
and different databases, it's going to
take those exceptions from that specific
layer and make it into the Spring
generic, or I shouldn't say generic, but a Spring
exception so that the exception and
error handling above your repository is
going to stay generic to the Spring
Framework and not be tied to the
particular persistence application you
have underneath. So it's a basically an
abstraction layer and it's a good
habit to do when we get into that
because you're going to be looking and
handling Spring exceptions and if you
think if you have an application and you
might be on MySQL, you don't want to be
handling MySQL specific errors when
further down the road you might migrate
the application to Oracle and get on a
real database. But this is just
convenient and that's probably the
biggest difference between the
annotations so just remember that. These
are largely used to express intent of
what that component is doing. I've seen a
lot of people get confused as to what
annotation, what Stereotype annotation I
should use when and generally if you
don't have a specific role, use Component
that's fine. But if you're doing a
controller, obviously use Controller, data
layer Repository or if you have
something like a service, obviously
Service. So a large part of the Stereotype
usage is to express the intent of that
Spring Bean.